---
title: "How Many Classifier-Noun Constructions? (a poster, online)"
collection: talks
type: "Poster"
permalink: /talks/2014-03-01-talk-3
venue: "6th Annual Boğaziçi University International Student Conference on Linguistics (SCOL 2024)"
date: 2024-05-31
location: "Istanbul, Turkey"
---

[poster](http:shuyangwei.github.io/files/Poster_BU.pdf)

This research figures out there are three types of classifier-noun constructions (type-A1, type-A2, and type-B ClNCs respectively) in the Yongjia dialect of Wu Chinese (Yongjia Wu), according to their phonetic manifestations, referential meanings, syntactic distributions, syntactic structures, and pragmatic functions. We aim to uncover the factors contributing to the observed differences among them. This study serves as a contribution to the description and analysis of ClNCs in Yongjia Wu, thereby enriching the field of dialect typology. We hope that our findings will inspire further investigation and refinement in this academic domain. 

First of all, based on phonetic manifestations, particularly the tones, we categorize ClNCs in Yongjia Wu into two types, type-A and type-B ClNCs. Second of all, within the type-A, further divisions are made depended on referential meanings and syntactic distributions, resulting in type-A1 and type-A2 ClNCs. In this categorization, we identify and classify type-A1, type-A2 and type-B ClNCs. In terms of phonetic manifestations, the tones of classifiers in type-A1 and type-A2 ClNCs maintain their inherent tones. The tones of classifiers in type-B ClNCs change into checked ones. In terms of referential meanings, type-A1 ClNCs are indefinite and are semantically interpreted as ‘one+ClNCs’. Type-A2 and type-B ClNCs represent two distinct definite ClNCs. Unlike Shaoxing Wu (Sheng et al., 2016), definite ClNCs in Yongjia Wu cannot be simply classified into quasi-article ClNCs and quasi-demonstrative ClNCs. Actually, type-A2 ClNCs are similar to ‘the+NP’ in English. Type-B ClNCs, on the other hand are similar to ‘this/that+NP’ in English. But whether a type-B ClNC is proximal or distant depend on the contexts, gestures, and non-linguistic cues. Regarding syntactic distributions, these three types of ClNCs do not exhibit rigid constraints, though they do display specific distinctions. Type-A1 ClNCs serves as subjects within the structure ‘...也冇/也未/也弗+(VP)’. They seldom function as topics or as subjects in embedded clauses unless comparing multiple objects (two or more). In contrast, type-A2 and type-B ClNCs share similar syntactic distributions. Regarding to stand-alone, type-A2 ClNCs cannot stand alone, while type-A1 and type-B ClNCs can. Type-A1 ClNCs cannot be used in possessive structures, whereas type-A2 and type-B ClNCs can. In terms of syntactic constructions, contrary to Li & Bisang (2012), we argue that indefinite type-A1 ClNCs adopt the interpretation of ‘pure quantities’ (A. Li, 1998), characterized by a NumP structure rather than a ClP structure. Classifiers in type-A2 and type-B ClNCs have undergone Cl-to-D raising, moving from its original position to the determiner position, resulting in DP structures. 

In the realm of pragmatic functions, type-A2 and type-B ClNCs fulfill various functions, including situational use, discourse-deictic use, tracking use/anaphoric use, recognitional use, and large situational use, while type-A1 ClNCs do not bear these features.

